# How to use SDXL
Please follow the instructions in the installation guide if you haven't. Below steps assumes that cremage has been already installed and the UI of the app comes up.

## Setting up
1. Put your SDXL model files (safetensors files) in models/ldm_model under the Cremage installation directory.
2. Start Cremage.
3. Select Preferences menu (File | Preferences). Specify the above directory in the Sdxl ldm model path field if not already specified.
4. Click the Basic tab.
5. Select SDXL in the Generator model type combo box.
6. Click the SDXL Models tab.
7. Select a model in Sdxl ldm model.
8. Click Safe as Default button at the bottom of the UI.

If you want to use the Face Fix feature or the Spot Inpainting feature, also select SD 1.5 in the Generator model and select a SD 1.5 model on the Models tab.

# LoRA
To use LoRA for SDXL, steps are similar to above. It is recommended to create a separate directory for SDXL LoRA that is different from SD 1.5 LoRA if you have a lot of LoRA files.

# Tips
You may notice that SDXL generation takes much longer than SD 1.5.

Currently, when LoRA and Refiner settings change, Cremage goes through a more time-consuming code path compared to changing other settings. This is a one-time operation to load models, so subsequent image generations will be faster. However, if you continue to change LoRA and Refiner settings, you will experience this slowness each time.

Keep in mind that you can change the base model itself (e.g., Juggernaut to Realvis) without incurring this slow down.

# Limitations
* SDXL Inpainting is not supported yet. You can use SD 1.5 inpainting for inpainting images generated by SDXL. To do so, switch to SD 1.5 by selecting SD 1.5 in the Generator model combo box on the Basic tab and select an SD 1.5 inpaiting model on the Models tab. You will see the "Inpainting" radio button is now displayed at the bottom of the screen.
* SDXL Hires fix is not supported for img2img or refiner.
* SDXL ControlNet is not supported yet. As a workaround, you can use SD 1.5 ControlNet to generate an initial image and polish the image using img2img in SDXL.
* SDXL FaceID is not supported yet.